# Project Summary
+ ## Project Definition 
Motion sensors in smartphones can be used to track a user's physical activity, such as sitting, standing, walking, jogging, climbing upstairs, downstairs, etc. This information can be used to monitor progress toward fitness goals and to encourage individuals to engage in more physical activity. The main objective of our project is to develop a system that utilizes motion sensing data or more precisely smartphone sensor data to accurately detect and classify physical activities performed by the user.

+ ## Dataset
In our project, we chose the dataset provided by Kaggle, where the dataset is time-series data with 12 features like gravity, rotation rate, user acceleration, attitude, etc., recorded with an iPhone 6S (using a gyroscope and accelerometer sensors). A total of 24 participants of different ages, heights, weights, and gender performed a total of 6 activities in 15 trials (long and short trials) under the same conditions. The 6 different activities can be labeled as Downstairs, Upstairs, Sitting, Standing, Walking, and Jogging. The size of the dataset is around 76MB, making it more appropriate for a Bigdata project like ours. Also, we find the dataset to be very interesting to work on.

+ ## Algorithms 
We have decided to use Python as the programming language, Spark as the framework for Bigdata, and GitHub for the project integration. Based on a discussion with the team, we have decided to develop our system using Decision Tree Algorithm and K nearest neighbors algorithm. The main goal of our project is to develop a system that can sense human motion and predict activities using the above-mentioned algorithms and thereby, comparing the performance. 

+ ## Research Questions
As a part of our project, along with the prediction of user activities, we believe that we could evaluate which model is better in terms of accuracy, and performance. And also we could learn if there are any specific kinds of data where one model outperforms the other and vice-versa. To conclude, the development of a system that can detect the activity of a person using smartphone motion-sensing data has the potential to offer a wide range of benefits for both individuals and society as a whole. By leveraging the motion sensing capabilities of smartphones, this system can accurately detect and classify a user's physical activities such as walking, jogging, standing, and other common activities. This can help individuals to track and monitor their physical activity levels, progress toward fitness goals, and better manage their health. 
